Welcome to the breakdown where we breakdown
all the messed-up shit!
Today we are looking at Pulse released in
2001 directed by Kiyoshi Kurosawa.
Kurosawa brings us a ghost story in which
two young and lonely individuals are contacted
and haunted by spiritual phenomena that uses
the internet or technology in general as an
outlet!
Now honestly this isn't the kind of disturbing
that we usually dive into, but it's a little
disturbing in its own way.
Another reason we are talking about Pulse
today is because we are doing our first collaboration
with another channel!
We are lucky enough to be able to cover Pulse
alongside Cinema Nippon, the channel that
creates critical reviews of various Japanese
films.
We would both love it if after you see this
video, you could check out their installment
of Pulse to view an excellent explanation
of Kiyoshi Kurosawa, the film and what Kurosawa
was communicating beneath the frames.
So, Pulse is a ghost horror story contemplating
eternal loneliness!
As usual, if you want to see what happens,
including all the messed-up parts, stay tuned
for the breakdown!
Pulse begins with people on a ship!
A storm seems to be on the way, but this girl
here stares blankly in the distance.
Let's start from the beginning with what she
is contemplating.
That girl is named Kudo Michi, and she works
alongside Sasano Junko and Toshio Yabe.
They work with someone else too, but he didn't
come to work today!
Or in the past week!
He's been taking some time off, and Junko
is quite worried!
Their coworker Taguchi is working on a computer
disk and they need it soon, so our main girl
Michi decides to roll up to his apartment
to check on him!
Pretty empty bus, and environment in general!
Fine ass Michi walks up on Taguchi's door
but looks like the entire room needs to be
restarted!
No answer, so she finds his spare key and
lets herself in and gathers evidence for the
upcoming class trial.
I mean she's looking for the computer disk
and her coworker but looks like he's cryptically
taking a view out the window!
Other than being a little awkward, he seems
to be just fine and lets her know the computer
disk is on the desk over there, but where
did he go this time?
Michi fine ass seems to have some good intuition
to know things is pretty weird around her
all the time!
She looks around for Taguchi again, but this
time she finds him...hanging!
He killed himself pretty quick and without
resistance.
Of course the police are called!
Probably hoping this isn't another Suicide
Club in the making!
Actually, this came out before that movie!
Despite their coworker killing himself, things
go back to normal for everybody but Michi.
They all decide to take a look at the computer
disc that Taguchi was working on.
They find a image of him standing...eerily!
On his monitor is a exact copy of the picture
they are looking at, and in the monitor on
the left is a face but I'm surprised they
even saw that.
Look!
The main point is that something strange is
going on!
It seems to follow Michi's fine ass all the
way to her flat!
Causing her TV to glitch..
She was pretty exhausted from turning it off
though!
Look, we can see things are going weird for
Michi and her coworkers regarding Taguchi's
suicide and that computer disc, but that's
not the only ghostly thing going on!
Elsewhere, a economics major named Ryosuke
Kawashima is signing up for a new internet
service!
Once he's all signed up, instead of possibly
connecting with others or whatever, his screen
goes black.
It again shows some random footage that he
can skip through.
It then asks him if he would like to meet
a ghost!
Kawashima's response is surprising though!
I thought he would be like, "Well why not!".
While sleeping, his computer turns itself
on and shows footage of someone sitting in
a mask.
Seems like a lot of those story-time videos
are like this.
So Kawashima is not comfortable with computers,
so he goes to the computer science department
to see what's going on!
I'm surprised he cared that much.
A post grad student named Harue Karasawa decides
to tell him how to save the web-page where
the video popped up either by bookmarking
it or print screen capture.
Since her last name is pretty similar to Kawashima,
I'll just call her by her first name Harue.
Now, back to Michi and her friends.
Yabe was the other guy who worked along side
Michi.
One day he gets a call.
A disembodied voice asking for help!
On his phone is the same image that he saw
on the computer disc, so he takes part in
the same trip Michi did and goes to Taguchi's
room, the guy who killed himself.
He finds a crumpled-up note saying The Forbidden
Room.
He also sees a black shadow mark where Taguchi's
body was, which also becomes Taguchi for a
split second.
When he leaves, he comes across a room sealed
off by red tape.
I'd say that these rooms could possibly be
a portal in some ways to the other realm.
Now listen, Yabe comes cross a creepy spirit
in black.
You see I would have been down the block by
now and probably would have missed her undulate
and move like that!
Hiding from the ghost isn't exactly the smartest
decision to make in this situation and it
supposedly grabs a hold of Yabe.
He survives, but he becomes pretty withdrawn
and distant from going into that closed off
room.
Speaking of, Michi sees some random lady in
red taping down a door.
Maybe those are the Forbidden Rooms.
So now lets go back to Kawashima's experience.
If you remember, his computer is plaguing
him with random footage.
He tries to bookmark the page and screen capture
but nothing works out!
He angrily and fearfully unplugs his computer
when the figure in the videos begins to take
his mask off.
He goes back to the computer science department
to ask for help and runs into his favorite
girl.
Harue offers to come to his place to check
it out.
Man you really should have picked up your
room before she came in.
Now as soon as she checks out his computer,
she starts getting cryptic.
She thinks that Kawashima got on the internet
to connect with others!
However she believes that individuals don't
really connect, and are most often separate
from others.
Okay again, we are back with Michi.
Pretend we are switching characters like GTA
5.
Michi is having trouble trying to talk to
Yabe after he visited the sealed off room.
He's quite withdrawn and lost the will to
live after encountering the ghost.
One crazy part though is that while just walking
home, Michi sees the lady in red who was taping
up a door.
The lady jumps from a silo all the way to
her loud smack death!
She handled that pretty well.
I would have probably vomited or something.
Alright we gotta switch characters again "(GTA
Sound Effects).
Oh look Kawashima is at a library.
He's never been in hear before, cant even
find the exit.
He must be looking for his crush Harue.
She's reading a book about phantoms though?
She drags him to the computer science lab
to show him a program a grad student worked
on.
Well she showed him before but this time the
dots are acting more weird and ghostly.
One thing for sure is that the haunted website
and the program seems to be related.
Look how hard Kawashima is blushing when Harue
gives him her number.
I don't even recall him asking I think he
just got it like that.
When being weird and awkward works out!
Still!
He goes back to the library to see what she
was reading a phantom book, but right after
closing it, he sees a dark apparition!
A grad student, the same one who made that
program, tells Kawashima that this is a normal
occurrence.
Dark ghosts are just all around!
The grad student has a theory.
Spirits are becoming apparent in our human
world, because their spirit world has a finite
amount of space.
Therefore, spirits are overflowing into the
human realm through various mediums, such
as technology!
We don't see the grad student again really.
Okay we are switching characters again.
Now if you remember Michi's situation, her
coworker Yabe lost his will to live, and various
people around are going missing.
At one point, Michi gets a phone call asking
for help.
It's Yabe's spirit voice, but that must also
mean he has died.
It seems as if he literally just became the
black stain.
Doesn't look like he actually killed himself
with anything other than just willing himself
away.
Now Michi only has one coworker left, Junko,
but she already succumbs to the desire to
check out the sealed off rooms.
Michi runs in to save her from seeing a spirit,
but Junko pushes her away and gets a strong
whiff of ghost in her system.
Regardless, Michi drags her friend out of
that room!
However, just like the other two Junko becomes
withdrawn and hopeless.
Michi has to take care of her and even feed
her.
At one moment she goes to the corner store
on West Shichifuku street to buy some snacks.
Y'all wont get that reference, but its very
empty.
It's like people are just vanishing in thin
air, now that's disturbing.
Missing cases like those are very spooky.
The store didn't seem to have any employees
in it, unless you count this demon hiding
behind!
Michi was so scared that she shoplifted and
ran all the way back home.
Honestly that was pretty hilarious.
You said you didn't want to switch characters
so soon?
Too bad'.
Back with Kawashima, he decided to hit Harue
up but she didn't answer.
So instead he goes straight to the lab.
Looks like its been vandalized though!
Possibly by some mean ass spirits.
Anyway he tries her apartment next, but really
she was acting weird in the rain.
She's very crazed and concerned about "Them
Disappearing" . Kawashima helps dry her off
and get her to calm down and relax!
She also confides with him an idea about life
after death.
Most people would like to think that once
you die, you possibly get to spend the afterlife
with your past relationships who are gone
too, like family and friends.
Most people don't consider that ghosts are
lonely too, that they don't actually get to
be with who they lived with.
This is the idea that Harue is pondering and
it literally makes the afterlife seem almost
as hopeless as no afterlife at all.
Well maybe that is pushing it, but I'm guessing
my thinking is that the afterlife must be
dark and barren in this film, and the only
thing ghosts can do is overflow and affect
people's thoughts.
Now Kawashima is naively disregarding all
that.
He doesn't want to think about death and afterlife
and loneliness in afterlife.
He even suggests that in 10 years, they will
have a pill that makes us all immortal.
Ha!
It's been twenty years and we still gotta
teach grown people how to wash their hands.
Back with Michi, she's having a hard time
helping Junko, her coworker who walked into
the ghostly portal room.
She asks, "Am I going to die like this?".
Honestly, she looks pretty dead already, but
she states that she'll just keep on living
then.
Well that doesn't look like living to me,
but what's the difference since we are both
so lonely apparently.
Her stain becomes particles that spread all
around the room and eventually exit, and this
leaves Michi all by herself.
Michi calls her mother to confide in her,
but she doesn't answer!
She takes the initiative again and runs towards
her mom.
Now elsewhere, Kawashima is all alone at some
game place.
It's empty except for a few dark ghosts here
and there.
Maybe the ghosts and the humans should link
up and go bar hopping.
Soon he comes across Harue trashing plants
and pottery for no reason.
She's still pretty weird now but he gets through
to her by saying that we should go somewhere
far away!
Like literally far away.
The subway is the quickest way
As usual there isn't anybody else around...but
he reminds her that he is right there with
her.
That she isn't alone.
It was a little cute, but soon the entire
train stops in the middle of nowhere.
Harue gets the strong compulsion to run all
the way back home and she leaves Kawashima
looking all over for her.
Somehow she made it back in some unknown amount
of time.
She gets a front row seat to that video Kawashima
was watching.
She see's somebody take off the mask, and
then shooting themselves in the head.
Then quickly on the other monitor she can
clearly see she's being projected.
She seems to see the recorder but we don't,
and she speaks to them saying that she is
not alone!
Pretty soon Kawashima breaks in to find her,
but of course she isn't there at all!
On the news, an announcer reads off several
names of people gone missing all over the
Kanto region!
It's pretty dead and broken all over Tokyo.
At one point Kawashima is just roaming around
when he see's a car that died.
In the car is...guess who...
It's Michi!
So our two individuals meet for the first
time.
They hit it off pretty well and he helps fix
her car.
They seem to be the only ones in the whole
city!
So regarding this whole loneliness thing,
Michi asks Kawashima to ride along with her!
She even helps him find the missing Harue
at her flat but she isn't there.
Michi however looks out the window and notices
an abandoned factory and they both decide
to check it out.
That's pretty interesting!
So they actually do randomly find Harue at
the warehouse but she has a bag over her head
like the ghostly people in those videos!
She doesn't look like she plans on killing
herself!
Oops, look like I spoke to soon, and so Harue
is gone.
It leaves Kawashima and Michi alone together.
Until they run out of gas.
Kawashima is then compelled to go in a Forbidden
Room when getting the gas, and he sees a ghost
like all the others.
The thing about Kawashima though is that he
rejects seeing the ghost and the isolation
it projects, but that fails very quickly.
Unlike Michi's last two coworkers though,
Kawashima exits the room by himself and Michi
finds him knowing he went in there.
She finds him crouched on the ground in front
of a black stain, and drags him back to the
car.
They make their way through an abandoned city!
It looks like a whole invasion happened.
I guess the underworld have dipped into the
human realm extremely by this point in the
film.
They both have this goal of getting as far
away from Japan as possible and drive to the
pier to get into a random boat that so happens
to be there.
When getting keys for the boat, we see how
lots of people probably died!
This special will to die due to contact from
the Isolated energies beyond this world.
Also a US Plane is crashing for some reason.
Anyway they get in the boat and drive away.
Kawashima is willing despite being depressed
and hopeless.
And so that is how we get to this point at
the beginning of the movie.
Michi and Kawashima were picked up by a ship
going all the way to Latin America.
The movie ends as Michi sits with Kawashima
in his last moments, in which he slowly becomes
a black stain like the others.
This time was different though, and Michi
feels as if she has done the right thing...and
has finally found some happiness!
The end credits song slaps too!
Anyway that was our first ghost film, which
follows that trend of other ghosts films like
RIngu..I really love these early 2000's Japanese
horror films.
Anyway, now that we felt the Pulse, lets talk
about the most disturbed moment and most enjoyed
moment in that Spooky Stuff, cue the Gohan!
Okay to be honest I'm sort of speechless.
I'm asking myself what to make of this movie
and its themes of eternal loneliness and the
role of the internet in drifting us apart.
Still, whether it was Michi's experiences
surrounding the Forbidden Room's or Kawashima's
experience surrounding the internet, it still
begs to question how important connections
are and the necessity they carry.
The folks over at Cinema Nippon will dive
deep into that abstract question, so make
sure you check out their video in the I at
the top right.
So lets get into it.
The most disturbed moment is quite seriously
maybe when that lady in red fell down.
Other than that the whole depression cases
just from viewing ghost is kind of alarming
too.
At the same time, this film isn't trying to
unnerve us in that extreme kind of way.
Most enjoyed moment is usually picked during
a break from all the sad and hectic things.
That break was seen at the end when Michi
found some kind of solace at the end.
Other than that the credits song slapped pretty
good!
And that's it.
I hope you guys enjoyed this video.
Me and Cinema Nippon were organizing and communicating
about this video for a couple months and they
worked pretty hard on their take, so if you
want to truly dive into this film and see
their excellent understanding of this abstract
film, make sure you click on that video right
here!
They also cover plenty Japanese films regardless
of genre so you should check them out!
Again, thank's for watching, SPOOKY OUT!